Not anybody, really, of any great concern. He's
just somebody that the Republican Party put in,
but that's just voice and opinion. And I guess it
says in itself that, yes, I do have a lot of
resentment for people who legally evaded the
draft or legally found themselves a way out. And it
took many years to really learn that the Selective
Service was more concerned with its upper echelon
young men in keeping them out of the war and away
from military service as it was. It was really
interesting for me to learn in South Vietnam, we
had 19-year-olds at war long before they did. And
what is even more appalling is to know that most of
the people that we fought were very young kids.
The VC, they weren't old people. They were 30 years
and younger. And it's surprising how many 12 to
15-year-olds I bumped into. So in respect, yeah, I
have a lot of resentment. But it's not something
that's
just one of those things that just no respect. And
Vice President Quayle just fits in that category.
Let that be on the record.
Okay, returning to the United States after your
tour of duty, did you find it hard? Like, here you
were just in a jungle, and then you get back to here.
The transition period? Yeah. Let me tell you, when
I got my orders, when I received my orders, you
know, you're finally going back home, and Things
are relatively easy going in the processing,
processing out. But then I always go back and
remember that second lieutenant. And I began to
look back in the servicing areas, back at Benoit,
the hatred, the racial indifferences, the Yankee
Rebel hatred is still there. I'm still seeing it
today around the country.
The black
movements and your Uncle Tom's and your Harlem and
Watts and Southside Chicago Loop, which I grew up
in, is still there. When I was going through my
process in the back, my mind was always there.
There's still another war going on, a war that
we're probably never going to find a solution to. I
don't know. But it's just, it was there. And that
transition always kept me alert.
The moment that plane took off, it just felt like
being drained. All of the emotional ties of
knowing that you're finally going home were
there. And I remember all the guys there just,
everybody just screamed and hollered. Wanted
something to drink, but I don't think there was
anything on the plane to drink. Except whatever,
somebody happened to sneak in on the plane. And all
of a sudden, you know, we were all happy guys. For
one, for less than an hour, we were all happy guys,
you know. And then somebody lit up a joint. It
started smoking, and immediately officers
converged on him. This guy was a criminal now, you
know. And it wasn't even funny anymore. And we're
going like, you're going to actually arrest and
court-martial this guy now. And less than 20
minutes ago, you're over there hugging and
kissing the guy. I mean, not kissing, but hugging
him and shaking his hand and saying, job well done,
soldier, and all this and that. And then turn right
around, and he makes just a slight mistake. And now
we're in a whole different world. Transition was
rather difficult, because even when I did get
back, Especially in California, it's so relaxed
out there. Right. That's essentially the
immediate transition. When I came back home, it
was like, oh, where you been, Claude? I ain't seen
you in two years, man. I've been doing this. I said,
yeah, well, I've been gone. Well, that's
basically it. When you left, yeah, when you first
left, did you feel guilty that you were going to get
to go home, or did you feel, well, I did my time?
Yeah, I always felt I did the best I could, but yeah,
you do feel bad. You leave friends, you leave
people. I never really got real close to anybody. I
tried not to. It was important to me not to get too
attached. Mm-hmm. It's just one of those
psychological feelings that you don't want to
deal with, having to see someone that you've been
sitting there talking about his problems or your
problems, and then feel a close attachment. Now,
some guys did, simply because they got a little
more out of it, or closeness than I did, but there
was nothing, you know, the only sad part about it
was knowing that I was no longer going to be there,
and I really didn't want to be there. The
transition period was very brief for me. I
immediately came home to find a whole different
world a year later, two years later, and then
finding all the different movements that were
going on here, the different fads. It was
essentially like another chapter in your life.
Turn the page. Start a new day and a new writing,
something new. to do and so I went back to school.
Did it make you bitter that back here not a lot of
people knew actually what was going on and like you
said, they came up and asked you, you know, where
have you been? Yeah, well, yeah, they were more
concerned about the girl that, you know, that was,
they met at the dance the other night, you know, and
I'm going, it's nice to talk, oh, she was good
looking, you know, and I'm going, yeah, I guess so,
yeah. No. There was no bitterness. It's just that I
knew what I had done. I can't help it if they didn't
know what they were doing, what they didn't know.
There are just so many people in this country that
are so ignorant to reality. And at that particular
time, unless you were a student, then you became
aware. Take the number of students versus the
population. You have very little. So everybody
still dealt with only knowing what the media told
them and what they read in the paper, which
essentially was played down because of the Nixon
administration. So, you know, it's just one of
those things. The people are more concerned with
their everyday life, you know, and it's good that
you're back now, not you're back here, it's okay,
you know. I'm going, yeah, thanks a lot, you know.
This is what I lived for, right. Is there
anything... Anything of importance that you
think, essentially maybe that you learned about
yourself from going to Vietnam or that you learned
in general?
In general?
Basically we should get involved in an incident
like that. I think we have a very similar incident
going on down in Nicaragua, down in Central
America. It's just one of those things that we're
pumping too much money pumping too many guns.
We're going to find ourselves either as taxpayers
spending more money in that direction. And it's
essentially the same history that Vietnam went
through.
If we did anything, we should be able to look back
and see why Vietnam became such an important
issue. If I learned anything, I learned to read
more. And I learned to be able to search more for
reasons and to really do something with and commit
myself because I have a better understanding. I
was young. Not a lot of us were young. Look at the age
group. The age is the difference between World War
II and the real goal we had then versus the goal we
had in Vietnam. So essentially if I've learned
anything it's become cognizant. What
about anything that you might want to talk about
that I haven't asked you? We didn't really deal too
much with drugs. That seems to be the most
important thing that went on for a long time.
You know, I'll give you an incident, and, you know,
we'll just look at it from there. But I remember one
day, you know, it was kind of a rather long day for me
because I helped out at a hospital, at one of the
evac hospitals, and I came back to the
dispensary, and the surgeon that worked with us, I
had a few beers there, so I drank them. I felt a
little more at ease and then I happened to walk
outside and two little Puerto Rican guys come over
to me and they said, hey doc, you got any needles
there? I said, needles? You know, I need some
needles. And that's when I began to really see more
and more heroin. I mean, it was probably there, I
just didn't pay attention to it. And I began to to
start seeing that, you know, these guys, you know,
they're really down into it. So I gave him a few
needles and told him, you know, keep it cool, and he
says, yeah, sure, you know, we'll be okay. One of
them OD'd that night. But I went outside, and there
by one of the sides of the bunks there, several of
the guys were together. And one of them had a pipe.
We used to do this on the fire base. And the fire base
is about the only time you ever did any smoking, if
you did any smoking. Because essentially, you
have a secure perimeter. You had a lot of guys that
didn't smoke. So somebody was always alert. So you
didn't really have to deal with getting, if you did
get high, you were pretty well secured. But this
particular situation, this one guy had this pipe,
and he had this Cambodian weed dipped in opium. And
they asked me, hey, you want a hit? I went, sure,
I'll take a hit. I got nothing else to do, right? I
mean, what else could go wrong? So I took a good
whiff of that. you know, held it long enough and
released it and took another one, held it long
enough and released it and then slowly, very
slowly began to stand up and then things started
getting blank, you know. And for the next 36 hours
it seemed like, that time period, I remember going
over the showers and I remember standing under the
shower and I stood there at least two hours
And this is late at night. I don't remember what
time I left the showers, but the Hoochie Maids came
in the next morning and I was still in there. But the
showers were off.
And it was just like, what happened? I mean, this
stuff was good, but Jesus Christ, what happened?
And I remember going back and just laying in the
bunk. And like I said, 36 hours later, I woke, I
really woke out of it. And they told me what was in
it, but they said, you were acting real strange,
you know. I said, thanks a lot. From then on, I never
touched the stuff. I always asked what it, you
know, it was just dipped in opium or not. But as far
as just smoking, I'd smoke. But So I learned very
quickly, you know, what drugs were about, and I
just said, hey, you know, it's just not something
that I need to get into. And it was surprising that I
had so many friends, well, not friends, but fellow
soldiers there that were into heroin, because it
was so cheap. And here again, you know, the
problems of the field didn't seem so important
anymore. The problems of being among each other
seemed greater. So there really was a big problem
and it was really strange that you couldn't trust
the people that you were immediately working
with. And that's just, you know, something that we
even have today among ourselves, you know, just in
everyday life. So that was one important issue
that always stood firm is just how bad the drug
scene was. And a lot of it had to do with just the fact
that we had no purpose, you know. And that we were,
and those of us that had been out in the field, you
know, had come to a realization that we may not come
home the next day. And so, you know, on the fire
bases, you went out and had a great time. You know,
if you got drunk and ended up beating each other up,
you know, it was the next morning you knew that,
black eyes or not, you're getting on that
helicopter and you're rolling out, you know. Did
it affect you in any way, like out in the field
fighting, knowing that, did you start to be more
careful at any point, or worry about what you were
doing, or was it like that all the time? Well, to
begin with, I never went out in the field
intoxicated by drugs or beer. And you're so
physically fit to begin with, and you sweat it all
out that you don't carry that with you. No, the only
thing that bothered me was the racialness. You
know, he went back to the fire base, and the blacks
would go one way, the Mexicans would go the other.
Puerto Ricans go in another direction. The
hillbillies from Arkansas would go in their
direction. The New York cats would go in their
direction. And then all of a sudden, you know,
they'd be cussing and fighting, you know. And then
the next morning, we're sitting in a helicopter.
We all, those of them who got into each other, you
know, are still mad at each other. But now we're
working with each other. We're fully... fully
automated, you know? And we've got all the
automatic weapons and the scopes and the grenade
launchers, the shotguns with us. So we really
carried that grunt.
I'm discussing
what it was like being in the field and how you felt
being in the field. Well, as I was saying, if we
really carried that grudge, we had an opportunity
to do something right then and there. But it's
surprising, just the whole theater in itself,
that we were more concerned about our duties
during the daytime and the time that we were out in
the field that we didn't care about our inner
thoughts and yet as soon as we get back to a fire base
or to a main secure zone where we can forget about
the jungle then all of a sudden the 18 or 20 years
prior to going to Vietnam all came back into play
and you really began to see that the trust among
each other all only depended upon how you really
felt among each other And that's the grudges of
black hating white and rich against poor and more
educated versus uneducated all stepped into
play. And that's something that your
interactions among so many different people from
all over the country and the hostilities that we
have in our own country were with us there. And it
wasn't like you're a friend, you know, one day, and
the next day you're willing to kill each other. So
different times you just, not everybody got
along, but when it came down to the actual having to
engage. And one of the platoons adjacent with us
one time, although there was a lot of grudge
against this West Point second lieutenant, that
in one particular incident, which ended in his
life, was the fact that he was so concerned about
increasing his rank that one of the Claymore mines
has tripped. And for some reason, he wanted to be
the first one out there to check it out. He ended up
tripping over another one, which ended his life.
There was no remorse for him. you know that's a
shame because you know you know you're only close
because you're having to work with each other but
at the same time the grudges from back home and the
grudges that have always played in the back of your
mind were there and uh it just you know to me there
was a not caring attitude I think that was a low
point in my life is the sense that that uh I learned
to just be the type of person that dehumanized.
There was no want, no caring at one particular
point. It was just something that stood out the
most. We were there. You weren't going home right
away regardless.
I guess that's it, unless there's anything... No,
basically that's, you know, I know that in your
class and, you know, you're young, you're having
to look back and see. You're hearing more about
Vietnam and the people. I even just read this
morning that General Gieff is doing fine and well
in his little fishing town in Dubuque or something
like that. It's right next to Houma, Louisiana.
And that was funny to listen. I mean, just to look in
the paper and catch that, because he was so much of a
strong person and president, you know, prime
minister, that is. South Vietnam during 65 and 68.
But there's so much news coming out nowadays,
especially with movies and stuff, with people
trying to bring back old feelings and bringing
back the triumph. But I don't think we should ever
forget. We should ever really think back and not
feel that those were very tormented years. And to
those of us that took part in it, it's very, very
close to the many of Americans that lost sons and
daughters. I include daughters because I guess
they were females. I didn't know of any, but still.
it's not something we should ever forget and we
should ever really feel. It's just that today in
this country, you know, you see so much, so much
hatred, you know, so much discontent, so much
cheating, so much stealing, and I don't think,
maybe it's not any different than it was back in the
50s, but it's just something that, you know, the
direction in which this country goes is very
important. I guess that's why many of us, you know,
we finally, we're getting together, we're
finally beginning to look and to ask the questions
together. How did the movies today about Vietnam,
do they mean anything at all to you, or are they just
movies? Well, they're movies. That's some points
in time. There are a few movies in certain
instances that can bring you right directly to
that confrontation period. But I guess the
greatest movie that I ever saw had anything to do
with Vietnam was called Hearts. I know, Hearts of
Mind. Yeah, Hearts of Mind. Did you see that? We saw
it in class. Yeah, because it was so direct, and it
was something that I visioned, that I visually
saw, part of. And, you know, it's just, you know,
it's not Hollywood. Right. That's really
important, is that we do look at our country as a
broad foreign policy, with an open mind and an open
thought of what we're really there and what is our
purpose. But that stands out. The PBS's 13 series
of the 10,000 Day War stands out because it is
documented. Very few people see them. They're
more concerned with coming home and the deer
hunter. And the only thing good about the deer
hunter was the fact that it was well acted. De Niro
played the part very well, but the sentimental
value of knowing and the transition and all the
things that you went through as a soldier there put
a tear in your eye when you walked out of there. I
know it did me, and it wasn't so much because I
related to any of the things that happened there.
Some of the things I saw, some of them I didn't. But
at the same time, the I guess it's the speed at which
life went at that particular time period and those
months that I was there really stood forward and I
guess I just felt it in the movie and in the very end
when they sang the final song.
Movies like that generally don't really appeal to
me. Platoon was just another another version of a
John Wayne movie of years ago. I mean, I understand
Hollywood plays so much to capture your thoughts,
but sometimes they go a little bit abroad. You
don't really see it and feel it. And it's just a
shame that the things that went on over there, the
death, to see the women and children simply
because they were in an area they weren't supposed
to be in, will always stay in the back of my mind. And
to remember that soldier crying out about, damn
it, he didn't want to die here. I want to go home, but
I don't want to go home in a bag. That always stands
out. And to come out of the field, that's serious,
come out of the field of being among all that,
moisture, all those leeches, all those snakes,
you know, which a couple of them crawled over my
leg, you know. I was so tired, I didn't want to move.
All I did was, one particular incident, one
crawled over and he went toward a Harlem cat and was
so tough, you know, he ran. I told him there was a
snake coming after him.
Just all those things, you know, just that happen
out in the field, and then you come back and get
reassigned into a base very close to the major city
of Saigon. And then across the air base there at
Benoit, they've got a theater that's just like the
one back home. You've got a long bin, and they've
got tennis courts just like the ones back home. And
a lot of libraries and all kinds of goodies, you
know. And you're going, now these are for the
officers. And for the people of the higher
echelon, we've got to go over there and sit with
bunkers and pull guard duty. It just really makes
you think about life in general and what you feel is
democratic and what isn't. So then essentially
you're asking the question, why was I there? And I
think in the very end, I'll always feel the same
way. I went there to honor myself as a member of the
country, of this country. And more important to me
is to honor my family as well as honor my dad,
because I always held him with a lot of pride and a
lot of feeling. He went through it. My uncles went
through it. And between me and another cousin,
that was it as far as the family was concerned. And
hopefully nobody else will ever have to go. But
here again, our present conditions don't warrant
that. And it's highly probable that we're going to
find border confrontations real soon. And I just
hope that our foreign policy will always remember
those trying years and use all of that history to
reinvent to not recreate what essentially was our
problem in Vietnam. I hope I've just been helpful.
Sure. Everything will help. Thank you very much.
Okay. Good day.